CE-256 First iteration over direct upload section (#2241)
mendersoftware/mender-docs: 07.Server-installation/09.Direct-upload/docs.md

---
title: Direct Upload
taxonomy:
    category: docs
---

!!! Support for Direct Upload is available exclusively in the Mender Enterprise plan in the On Premise offering.
!!! See [the Mender features page](https://mender.io/product/features?target=_blank)
!!! for an overview of all Mender plans and features.

> The Direct Upload feature provides a Mender channel to upload artifacts directly to the Mender artifact storage, processing it and putting it in the correct place and structure, without going through any other Mender component like the API gateway or deployments service.
> This is an API/CLI feature only, and you can see the progress in the Mender Web UI only after the process completes successfully.
> This feature drastically reduces the time to upload the Mender artifact to the Mender artifact storage, especially when uploading large artifacts (1TB for example), while also reducing the load on the Mender server infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Direct Upload feature provides a Mender channel to upload artifacts directly to the Mender artifact storage, processing it and putting it in the correct place and structure, without going through any other Mender component like the API gateway or deployments service.
This is an API/CLI feature only, and you can see the progress in the Mender Web UI only after the process completes successfully.
This feature drastically reduces the time to upload the Mender artifact to the Mender artifact storage, especially when uploading large artifacts (1TB for example), while also reducing the load on the Mender server infrastructure.
```

Reviewer 2: Couldn't commit this one, github prevented saying no change exists

## Prerequisites

<!--AUTOVERSION: "version %"/ignore-->
!!! This feature is available starting from the Mender Product bundle version 3.6.3

* The `mender-cli` tool. You can find information about how to download it and the installation steps in the [Downloads section](../../10.Downloads/docs.md#mender-cli) from this documentation.

> * To use the direct upload feature, the user needs to have at least the Deployments Manager and Releases Manager roles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To use the direct upload feature, the user must have at least the Deployments Manager and Releases Manager roles.
```

* Enable the feature on the server by applying the [helm charts](https://github.com/mendersoftware/mender-helm#complete-list-of-parameters) with:
    * `deployments.directUpload.enabled` to `true`
    * `deployments.directUpload.skipVerify` to `true`

## Upload process

> For uploading an artifact you will need to have a session token, this could be solved by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For uploading a Mender Artifact you will need to have a session token. You can get one by running the following command:
```
